			Big Volts- A Layman's Guide			--------------------------- In response to Mick York's excellent and informative article (in 8BS 40)on the inner workings of the power supply, I was moved to undertake someresearch into Big Volts, or BV as I shall call them, and how they get toyour socket set. In the following short and, I hope, informative articlesummarising my efforts, I have tried to explain the technical terminologyin a simple way and, despite the incredulity which this might engender, Ican assure those of a pessimistic nature that everything has been double-checked for veracity. BV are in fact all around us all the time, but are just too small to see,unless you poke your finger in your eye. This is not a course of actionwhich I recommend as it makes your fingertip wet, but if you take suitableprecautions, eg by wearing a Marigold ( or any other rubber flower ) onyour hand, this can be avoided.  After having poked your eye, the first thing you will see ( after somesense, I hope! ) is lots of of very bright spots. This effect is quitenormal, albeit painful, but is the only surefire way that I have found ofseeing BV ( for that is what the spots are ) without resorting to dubiousand addictive chemical or herbal aids. Due to the transitory effect ofintroducing a digit into the eye, there is not much time to study thespots. However, I am reliably informed by friends who are unable toremember the 60's ( and whose presence there cannot therefore be doubted )that recourse to chemical and/or herbal aids during this decade enabledthem to undertake longer-term contemplative study of these spots. Theyassure me that once the haze clears and the spots can clearly be seen,they are all different colours and sizes, with a very wrinkled exteriormost closely resembling the dried fruit known as a currant. This may seemincidental at this stage, but it's importance will become clear later. Having thus conclusively proved their existence, we move on to learn alittle more about them. Big Volts do not like sudden movement. This is quite easily, and somewhatless painfully, proved by the simple means of taking off a woolly-pullyvery quickly. This sudden action startles all the BV which were quietlykeeping warm in said wooly-pully, causing them in their fright to biteyou. ( This common phenomenon is actually wild BV in their natural state,and why they were given their true name of startled electricity. Onlythose which we manage to domesticate should properly be known as BV. ) Startled electricity are as I said all around us all the time, but beingabsotively miniscule in size, we tend not to notice them. ( The afore-mentioned finger-poking has the dual effect of making your eye water, andalso causing the lens in your eye to temporarily swell due to the trauma,thus increasing it's magnification. ) As they are so tiny, they are verydifficult to study, but due mainly to the research and effort put in awhile ago by a chap called Michael for a day ( presumably the day on whichhe put the effort into his research, although the history books omit totell us what he was called for the rest of his life ), the followingdetails are known. They do not like noise, and will often bite a gopher playing around andhitting a ball too loudly in the rain. This does seem to bring out theirworst side, as a gopher not hitting a ball but wearing loud trousers orsocks under a tree is also likely to be bitten during precipitation. Possibly their most destructive trait, as far as we are concerned, is adislike for certain types of clips. I refer to grated circlips, to givethem their full name, and startled electricity seems to particularly haveit in for the marine seamoss type. Exactly what this harmless part hasdone to engender such antipathy is unclear, but simple protective measurescan be taken. As startled electricity also has a dislike of handcuffs, ifyou wear a pair tied down to your chair ( or anything else on Earth ) whenhandling your parts, they will be safe.  They are attracted to water, which is partly why the eye-poking enablesthem ( although, temporarily, not much else ) to be seen.   They like warmth, as I mentioned above, and this is one of the main waysin which startled electricity can be harnessed for our use, of which morelater.  Unless forced to react to sudden movement or noise, they are normallyquite patient, placid, and sedentary, although they can move exceedinglyquickly when they want to, often when you neither expect nor want them to.  They like giving shoddy presents, of which the most common is a nastybelt, and they seem to have an unlimited supply of these.  They can jump relatively far for their size. This is sometimes known asarcing ( not to be confused with Arcing which, as we all know, is definedas taking a Risc whilst using your computer ), or shortening, which Ialways thought was something used in baking. Just goes to show, you canlearn something new every day! Their favourite habitat is tubes, which is why a lot of the more recentresearch data emerged during World War II, when a lot of the scientists inLondon were also living in the tube during air raids. They are extremely sociable, towards each other at least, and will comefrom miles around when word goes out that some suitable tubes have been found. Their second-favourite habitat is hen-houses, or batteries as they aremore commonly known. Quite why they have this affinity for chickens is notfully understood, but this is where their patience manifests itself, asthey will quite happily sit on the shelf for months or years at a time ina battery. I hope that you have been able to absorb all the above details? They mayseem trivial in themselves, but an appreciation of them is vital to allowyou to understand the following section. This will explain how some ofthese characteristics, when taken in combination, enable us to harness arelatively small amount of the total startled electricity in the world, tobecome BV for our use and benefit. It was discovered a while ago by a loud-trousered Asian/American gophercalled Benfrank Lin, having been bitten whilst playing around, and takenup kite-flying in the rain instead, that startled electricity wasattracted to long loops. ( In our computer age, this was to become thebasis of many a young programmer's first efforts. ) Someone had the brightidea of making these loops out of tubing and ( to save having to employpeople to stand holding them ) suspending them between tall towers. Due tothe nature of the construction of these towers, he wanted to pay tributeto the Ancient Greek father of geometry, Pythagoras. Unfortunately, he gothis Ancient Greeks in a twist, and mistakenly named them after a famouspoet and scribe. Thus he called them Homeryoids or, as we more commonlyknow them, piles. For a reason that even my exhaustive research has been unable to uncover,these long loops of tube became known as cattery wires, perhaps due to thenoise made when the wind blows through them? Whatever, they were found tobe extremely effective at attracting startled electricity, and this can beseen with the naked eye. Were the cattery wires to be empty, they would goin a straight line between the piles. The fact that they sag between thepiles proves that they are full of startled electricity. Yes, I know Isaid that they are very very tiny, and therefore individually would bevery very light but, and you cannot argue with the logic of this, lots andlots of very very tiny and very very light things all attracted to thesame place at the same time makes for very very heavy. Further proof, asif it could be needed, is shown by the fact that the cattery wires saglower in cold weather, as more startled electricity come in to warm up. Having got the startled electricity into the wires, how then do we goabout getting them out again, so that they can be used? Obviously a 13 Ampplug is too small to have enough suck to get more than the nearest few outof the socket set, and the cattery wires and piles go on for miles. In his article, Mick correctly stated that BV start off as assortedcurrants (ac), being converted within the power supply into drift (dc),and waste (wc). There is a fourth type which he did not mention, as thearticle was intended for the magazine and I expect he did not wish toupset other 8BS members. I hesitate to do so myself, but it plays a veryimportant part in the whole process, and I can only offer my apologies inadvance. The fourth type is pointless currant (pc), so-named partly because it istotally smooth, but mainly because it pointlessly crashes at random, andcannot count past 2000, and what is the point of something that cannot dothat? It is however this random crashing which gives it one saving grace. If you can remember back to the beginning of this article ( Yes? Welldone! ), I said that BV looked like currants. It is the wrinkled surfaceof non-pc BV which can make it difficult to get them out of tubes, as theytend to get interlocked and clumped together. However, with a pc or few inamongst them crashing left right and centre, the other currants get prettyhot under the collar, and start looking for somewhere else to go. Theirlove of water comes into play here. At one end of the miles of piles weput some enormous upright concrete tubes, known as cola towers due totheir resemblance to a squashed soft-drink tin. The cola towers are filledwith fizzy, coloured water ( much the same as a soft-drink tin ), and theBV rush towards them to cool off. When this system was devised, it was thought that a pc was pretty rare( it is now known that they are in fact very common, almost to the extentof over-population ), and that BV would need encouragement to get to thetowers; as the cattery wires do sag between the piles under the weight ofall the BV inside, half their journey would be uphill and, having got awayfrom a pc, their calm nature would come to the fore and they would notbother with the uphill bit. For this reason, all cattery wires were hungbetween the piles on insulters, in order to annoy the BV further and keepthem moving. You can get some idea of just how hot they are by looking atthe amount of steam given off from the cola towers. Don't bother lookingat night though, because you will not see it then. It is dark. Eachcollection of cola towers is known as a power station, and they are allrated by Megan Watt, who is a descendant of James, the man who inventedwhistling kettles. The cattery wires always end a few yards away from the cola towers, sothe BV have to jump across to reach the water, something they easily do intheir agitated state. Incidentally, as it takes forty thousand of them tojump one inch, you can get some idea of the numbers involved here as well.As the BV cool off they calm down again, and stay in the cola towers. Sohow are we to get them near enough to the socket set for the 13 Amp plugto suck them out? After all, power stations are usually a long way away. The final part of the process is possible thanks to a very famous man whogrew apples for a living. His name was Zak Newt, and he invented gravity.This became so popular that everybody started using it, and as he hadn'tbothered to patent it, he didn't get a penny from it. He did get a nighthood though, which must have helped him sleep. Gravity, as you may or maynot know, makes things fall down. Lumberjax is a form of gravity, as isFred Dibnah, but these are copies. The form having original gravity isbeer. There is one type of beer which has very little original gravity init at all, and is mostly just fizzy, coloured water. Despite having solittle gravity, this is known as larger. ( Another type, having a biggerlevel of original gravity, is called small beer. The world is full ofparadoxes! ) The cola towers are filled with larger, which has just enough gravity tomake BV fall down. They fall to the bottom of the tower, where there aremillions of tiny tubes. The tubes are wide enough to let the BV through,but not the fizzy water because it is larger. These tubes go off, three toeach house, and are covered in a thin layer of insulting, just enough togently keep the BV on the move at the rate of four and one third per hour,exactly the rate at which your 13 Amp plug can suck. It all makes sensenow, doesn't it?