Play It Again Sam 17 ReviewBy Crispin Boylan (E4W)Available from: Superior SoftwarePrice: `14.95 (`6 to 8BS members)Type of games:Summer Olympiad - SportsTactic - Puzzle/StrategyMaster Break - Sporting QuizVideos Revenge - Shoot em upStrangely different to the others, this compilation only features one gameactually written by Superior Software, has very sparse instructions(instead of a sheet you get them printed on the inside of the cover) andthe packaging is different. I think this was because it was really rightat the death of the BBC era, and demand wasn't as high for new games.Anyway, on with the review.....................Summer Olympiad---------------This is a game by (in my opinion) the masters of all Sports games, ever,Tynesoft. You may remember Winter Olympiad by them as well, well this ismore of the same except the events are different! They are; Fencing,Diving, Hurdles, Triple Jump, and Clay Pigeon Shooting. Basically the aimis to do as well in each event as possible, gaining either a Gold, Silveror Bronze, the winner at the end being the one with the most Gold Medals.You can play this game with up to three friends, the places not played byhumans being controlled by the BBC. There are three rounds to each event,with your best score over the rounds being the one that counts after allthree rounds have been played, then the medals are handed out.As you would expect from a game of this type, the gameplay is very varied,and you always feel like playing all the way through to the end. In theFencing you have to touch your opponent's body three times with the sword,whilst parrying and blocking his attempts to do the same. It is quiterandom (at least the way I play it!) although the computer does use acertain amount of skill, whereas I just wiggle the sword around! It is funthough, the only bad thing being that you can't play against a friend, butonly against the computer. Triple Jump is next up, and is quite enjoyable,you have to tap the Z and X keys rhythmically to get the jumper's speedup, and then press the spacebar before he hits the white line, the amountof time you keep the bar pressed increasing the angle at which he jumps.This is a very skilled round, but fun. Skeet Shooting is my favouriteevent, you just have to shoot the clay pigeons which are fired, the winnerbeing the one who hits the most clay pigeons. Hurdles is roughly the sameas Triple Jump, with the difference being you have to press the spacebarat the right time in order to jump the fences. This is an annoying eventbecause however hard you try, the computer always seems to win!  Diving isfairly straightforward, just use different spins and jumps and try to getas good a landing as possible in order to impress the judges. It is finein theory, but the moves aren't varied enough, and it is hard to control.The graphics are really quite superb in this game, with nice high-resolution screens announcing the different events, and a great OpeningCeremony view of the Games. The game itself is played in low-resolutionmode, and in some of the events the colours do clash a bit, but they aredrawn very well. The graphics move well, no flicker, and the animation ison the whole quite good.  The music is very nice as well, there is greatopening-scene music, and also music between events, and it is a pleasurerather than a burden to listen to! The whole game is put togetherexcellently, but unfortunately is not as well put together as otherTynesoft games, particularly Winter Olympiad.Tactic------This one is programmed by a company previously unknown to me, Eterna. Thegame was originally released on the Acorn Archimedes, and is basically atwist on the age-old Tetris theme. This is quite a good idea, particularlyon the Beeb, as we have not been blessed with a decent conversion of theold classic yet! You have to make certain larger shapes out of the blocks and circles whichfall from the top of the screen, this gains you points, but to completethe level you have to make a certain number of specific shapes, which isshown by a number next to each shape which you must create from theblocks. When you make all of these shapes, you have completed the level.The basic shapes you have to make are: three in a horizontal line, threein a vertical line, three in a diagonal line, four in a square shape, andfinally a cross shape, made from five shapes. You have to use identicalblocks to make each shape. This may sound good, but in practice it is notan ideal game, it just lacks that certain enjoyment factor which you getfrom Tetris, at times it can become very annoying, and the shapes aresometimes hard to distinguish from each other.The graphics are fairly empty, as are most puzzle game graphics, all theshapes are standard fills and shades, and the rest of the screen is blankapart from the walls of the playing area. The one redeeming thing aboutthis is that the game can cope with two players playing at the same time,this can be more competitive, but isn't really brilliant. The sound isalso very bland, in fact there isn't much any of it at all.Overall, not a brilliant game, but worth a play if you like this sort ofthing. It is quite good for two players, but nothing more than average.Master Break------------You may have seen my earlier review on this game, but now its on disk, Ithink it is worth a few more points. The basic game is a quiz snookergame, with you having to answer questions on a myriad of subjects in orderto pot the balls. You can play this game with up to four players, and it is definitely not agame for you to play on your own, as you wouldn't play Trivial Pursuit onyour own! The game starts with you having to answer a red ball question,which is easy(ish) and only worth one point. Should you get that right,you get a choice of any coloured-ball questions, these having the samenumber of points allocated to them as in the real game of snooker, ieblack is the most points, but is also the hardest. You can answerquestions on the following topics - Science & Nature, Pop Music,Geography, Sports & Pastimes, The Arts, and History. The questions arevery testing, and as there are over 1500 of them, they'll keep you goingfor a while! I did once hear rumours that Superior was releasing extraquestion packs for this game, but it never happened, which is a shame.The graphics of this game are very bland, and this disappoints me becausefrom a game like this, where not much movement is required, I would atleast expect the game to be laid out in a manner which is appealing to theeye, even the loading screen is minimal. The sound is also very boring,again I would have at least expected a musical score to accompany thegame, perhaps 'The Entertainer'?The game is not well presented, but once you get into it, it can be a veryenjoyable game, as long as you don't play it alone! One minor gripe isthat a lot of the questions (and not just History ones!) tend to rely onyou knowing the year in which something happened, and although you get achoice of four, it is quite repetitive.Videos Revenge--------------Oh dear, not another Shoot Em Up, you'd think that by the time 1992 camearound (which is when the compilation was originally released) Superiorwould have realised how hackneyed the whole genre had become, but oh no,they stick this one on us. Written by Alligata, and hardly a classic evenwhen it was originally released, this is the standard shoot-everythingtype of game, no plot at all.The twist in this game is that you can either speed up or slow down thecraft you are moving in, other than that, not a great deal has changed.You just shoot the aliens coming at you, or dodge them. As in the classicGalaforce, the aliens attack in waves, although they aren't reallyorganised pattern formations as they are in Galaforce. On the whole thisis quite pointless, and the gimmick (the speed control of your ship) isentirely unnecessary, as it breaks up the flow of the game.The graphics are not gobsmacking, they don't use any technical wizardry tomove obscenely fast, they don't make you go 'Wow', in short they areboring. The sound too is minimal, and not very inspiring. I can't reallythink of anything good to say about this game, other than the fact that itsits somewhere on the pile of Shoot-em-up games just above 'completedrivel' and below 'average shoot-em-up'.Overall-------Four games, one by Superior, and it just happens to be the best of thebunch.  None of the games are particularly brilliant, in fact they are allsort of just above mediocre. It is hardly surprising, as they wereprobably scraping the barrel for good games after 16 compilations,although PAS 18, which features Nevryon, E-Type, Holed Out, and Citadel 2,certainly sounds better on paper!Score: 69% 