Play It Again Sam 12 ReviewBy Crispin Boylan (E4W)Available from: Superior SoftwarePrice: `11.95 (`6 to 8BS members)Type:Skirmish (Buzzard Flying)By Fair Means Or Foul (Sports)The Last Ninja (Beat-em-up)Blagger (Platform Puzzler)Skirmish~~~~~~~~At first this looks like just a very odd game, with you having to fly abuzzard around the screen, and jousting with various knights also ridingother birds. Then, when you see it is made by Aardvark, creators of theclassic Firetrack and Zalaga games, you cannot help but feel intrigued. This is a conversion of the classic arcade game Joust, the main aim of thegame being to out joust all the other opponents on the screen. You flyaround, a knight on a buzzard, trying to kill all the evil knights, you dothis by getting your joust stick above theirs when you both make contact,if you don't then you die, if you manage to do it then the knight diesand an egg is released. You then have to catch this egg before it hatchesand a new knight is released, then a new bird comes along and the knightmounts it and you have to kill him again. There are different types ofknight, each with their own intelligence, you start off the game with verystupid knights as your opponents, but then they get harder as youprogress, some of them actually have very good artificial intelligence (orat least they seem as if they do) The graphics in this game are very nice, they are drawn in lowresolution, but are quite detailed, and the designer hasn't gone over thetop with dancy backgrounds. Anyway, graphics isn't what this game is allabout, it is about sheer one or two player fun involving large birds and abig lance (steady on!). The sound is also quite minimalistic, but neverannoying like so many other games.Overall, I would say it is a classic, definitely on my list of all-timefavourite games, and you should definitely get this game!By Fair Means Or Foul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As you probably won't have guessed by the title, this is a boxing game.Basically there aren't any plots to sports games, but the task you have toachieve as a trainee boxer is to reach the status of world champion byknocking out successive opponents, which get harder and harder each time. The game is played from a side on view of the boxers, and the referee isalso present, he watches your every move, and penalises you if you commitany foul moves. Yes, that's right, this game actually lets you cheat! Youcan kick your opponent in the private parts, head butt him, or punch belowthe belt. At the top of the screen there is an outline of your boxer, andthis changes colour depending on what chance you have of landing a foulpunch without the ref seeing. Also inside the outline is a number, whichis the number of 'lives' which you have left, and when you get hit or seenby the referee, these lives get taken away. The gameplay is quite good, you always feel in control of what your boxeris doing, the controls are responsive, and generally it is an all-roundgood game. The only slight niggle I have is that it is sometimes hard toblock punches, because the computer does not allow your boxer to react fastenough...slight cheating on the part of the computer! Again I wasimpressed with the skill of the computer in this game, the differentopponents have different tactics, some hold off, others go straight in,and it really does make the difference between a good and average one-player game if you can believe that you are fighting someone real. Thetwo-player mode is of course full of foul punches, especially whenplaying against a mate!The graphics are drawn in low resoltion, but have good character, and arenicely done, the large sprites don't even flicker a bit! The game has alot of nice graphical touches, like the way that the crowd shout outdifferent things to the boxers, which is shown in speech bubbles. Thesound is also quite good, with the roar of the crowd, and the ding ding ofthe bell done to perfection.Another great game, especially in two player mode!The Last Ninja~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A game written by one of the best programmers the Beeb was ever luckyenough to have, Peter Scott. If you pay any attention at all to any of myreviews, then you'll know that I think this man is an excellentprogrammer, and he can really do a good game on just about any subject,which is quite remarkable, as different genres require vastly differentskills. Anyway, back to the game, this is a shoot-em-up, done in solidisometric 3d, with you playing the part of the Last Ninja, trying toachieve your goal and get to the end of the three levels, which are allset in Japan. There are authentic weapons a-plenty in this, Numchukas,Shuriken Stars, Long Poles, Samurai Swords, evrything any self-respectingNija could want actually! You have to get to the end of each level, whichsometimes requires some good timing, and slight problem solving (althoughthe problems are very easy to solve).The game itself is very nice, a good fun game to play, it is quite varied,the controls are responsive, and nice to use. The only problem comes whenthe fighting starts, it is very monotonous, there are only two moves youcan do with each weapon, and it is really just a matter of going in closeand tapping the fire button until the opponent is dead, not at all likea real Ninja (what the hell am I saying, I've never even seen a realNinja!).The graphics are good, the 3d engine can handle every situation in thegame, and the whole thing is very nicely presented. There is a slightproblem in that sometimes the graphics engine mucks up a bit and you canwalk on top of objects you shouldn't be able to, but other than that it isvery good. Sound is minimal, and I wish there had been more, maybe anice oriental tune at the start!Overall, a good game, but by no means a classic, still, it's entertainingenough!Blagger~~~~~~~The only other game not to come from Superior on the compilation, this oneis by far the least good (I won't say worst because that would make it soundbad). It comes from Alligata, they basically didn't stand a chance of megiving this game a brilliant review, because of the company it's in onthis compilation. Well anyway, this is a sort of Manic Miner clone, youhave to move around the screen, which is shown in it's entirety by onephysical screen, collecting the keys whilst dodging the various obstaclesin your way, liking moving objects, conveyor belts, and ground whichdisintegrates when you walk on it.The game is quite hard, and you really have to get a good look at thelevel before you even start to move, because it isn't the type of game youcan just go through! Having said that, it suits this compilation to havea game that moves at a slower pace, and isn't all action. The only thingI would say against it is that it can be very frustrating, as thecollision detection isn't exactly crash hot, and the main character doesmove quite slowly. Also, it isn't exactly original, it borrows a lot fromvarious games, mostly Manic Miner as mentioned before, but also others.The graphics are, as seems to be the theme of this compilation, lowresolution, and although they are quite nice, in a small sort of way, theydon't really stand up to the same sort of level as in the other games. The sound is also quite minimal, and very annoying at times, the sounds theyuse to depict things just grate.Overall, a nice puzzler, nothing special, in fact it's rather average, butnot so bad that it isn't worth just one play once in a while!