Play It Again Sam 15 ReviewBy Crispin Boylan (E4W)Available From: Superior SoftwarePrice: `14.95 (`6 for 8BS members)Type: four games in compilation:Cyborg Warriors - Shoot-em-upNetwork - Arcade AdventureRicochet - Arcade AdventureThe Last Ninja 2 - Scrolling beat-em-upThis looks like a pretty fine compilation at first glance, especially when yousee that two of the games were programmed by the ace programmer Peter Scott,and also when you consider that most of the games were great hits for Superiorat their time of original release. So here is the review, it is broken downinto sections for each of the games on the compilation.Cyborg Warriors---------------Programmed by Tony Oakden, this makes a change from his normal style of ArcadeAdventure games (Camelot, Quest and Star Port) and onto the well worn path thatis the shoot-em-up genre. The plot is thin, and as always with shoot-em-ups,unnecessary. Who wants to be bored with the standard you are trapped in analien world, shoot everything and you will win scenario? Luckily this onedoesn't get too stuck in with padding out this thin plotline, and thus the plotis left to one or two lines at the start of the instructions. So what you doget then is a pretty impressive piece of programming, a fast moving parallaxscrolling shoot-em-up with a variety of four different weapons, the StandardIssue Laser, the Multi Directional Laser, the Anti-matter Torpedo, and theSmart Bomb Launcher. The game is pretty much endless, and is more of a high-score-getting game thana game with fixed objectives and levels, this makes a change from the objective-based games of today. The gameplay itself is superb, the graphics are quitegood, even though the colours are a bit on the psychedelic side, and they movewith such speed and fluidity it makes you wonder what went wrong with all thosebadly scrolling games that there have been over the years. The screen size isimpressive as well, as most shoot-em-up games have a need for speed, the windowmust be reduced, too much and this can lead to people going blind fromsquinting at a stamp sized window on the screen (you only have to look at agame called War from Martech to see what I mean), too little and the gamebecomes slower than a one-legged hedgehog. The game play is nice and fast andfurious, and very very hard, just like shoot-em-ups should be. The only badthing I have to say about the gameplay side of things is that the enemies arenot as varied as they could be, there are only really three or four differentenemies to encounter on your journeys.Sound is not exactly brilliant, very limited in fact, but this doesn't detractfrom what is probably among the best shoot-em-ups on the Beeb, perhaps onlybeaten by Firetrack from Aardvark and Nevryon from The 4th Dimension. Theweapons in the game are very nicely done, and just when you get bored, up popsa new weapon for you to slaughter the enemy with...wonderful!Network-------The first of the two games on the disk by the mystical Peter Scott, who in hisday (don't know what he's doing now) was probably the most consistently goodprogrammer on the BBC, his softography is extensive to say the least. This isone of his best genres, the arcade adventure, with the quirky quaint type ofcharacters in it that give his games a style all of their own. This one seesyou, the sort of squashed egg cup shaped thing (the name is never mentioned asfar as I know) trying to construct the Flynche machine by collecting all of its20 parts. To hinder your progress there are aliens and dangerous objects whichmust be negotiated so that you lose as little of your energy as possible (shownby a bar at the top of the screen). This task is made easier with theinclusion of a laser, with which you can shoot said beasties, but be warned,this laser has only a limited amount of energy (shown by another bar at the topof the screen).The first thing you notice about this game is its size, it is pretty huge, butorganised neatly into single screen areas, it is flick screen rather thanconstantly scrolling. The main things you have to do on this game are jumpingand avoiding the baddies, this is not as easy as it sounds, and the game isactually quite hard, especially when you have to use the moving platforms, asyou must match your movements to those of the platforms, they will not carryyou along with their own movements. There are also other things to negotiateincluding springs which can be bounced on, lifts, and the especially niftyteleport machines which can move you to the other teleport machines (you haveto have seen them before to teleport to them). The game moves along quitenicely, but it is perhaps too hard in places, especially at the start screenwhich is a task all of its own just to get out of, once you get used to how thegame works though, it is nice and user friendly. The game uses low-resolution Mode 2 graphics, but these are very well drawn,and the colour palette varies constantly throughout the game. The graphicsdetailed, though not as much as in games like Pandemonium and Thunderstruck. The whole thing is very well programmed, there is hardly any sprite flicker,even when there are a number of moving objects on the screen, and the graphicsmove very smoothly. The colours are well combined, and there aren't really anywhere they clash with each other, they go rather nicely with each other infact.The sound on this game is pretty poor, no music anywhere in the game, and thesounds are actually exactly the same as in most other Peter Scott games. Thismeans just a sound when the energy goes down, and various other bleeps andpings for accomplishing things in the game. It could have certainly done witha bit of music in game. Overall though, it isn't a bad play, although it isn'tPeter Scott's best work.Ricochet--------This is what you could call the 'premium' game of the bundle, it was actuallyreleased before the compilation was made, and is one of the biggest sellingSuperior Software games. In this game you play 'Sprat' a ball shape, who canonly roll around and bounce in order to achieve his goal. The objective of thefive levels included is to find the hourglass in each level, and then teleportout of the level, you get a password for each new level that you visit, so youdon't have to go through all of the levels every time you play. Although thepasswords are available, they aren't really supposed to be used to complete theultimate goal, to go through all five levels in one game, without stopping,this will uncover the secret message!Although not exactly original, this is quite a fun game, the way you have towork out which points to bounce from and in what direction so that you canreach otherwise unreachable platforms. This adds so much more to the arcadeadventure genre, instead of just climbing up and down ladders, you have bouncethrough narrow gaps to reach things, and generally it is more interesting justmoving around the levels than it is in most other arcade adventures. Thepassword feature is excellent as well, as on most other arcade adventure gamesyou cannot really save your game in any way, and they are normally very hard. By splitting this game into separate levels, you get the game in bite-sizedpieces, which can be played separately, and then you can decide when you wantto attempt the whole thing at once. The difficulty level is set just right, itis nice and easy at the start, to get you into the game, and once you are inthere, it doesn't just slack off but the whole game seems to move up a gear. The good thing about the keys on the game (which you must collect to opendoors) is that the keys are marked with letters, and these are shown if youhave the key in your inventory, also when you move to a room with a door in it,the letter of the door is also shown, so you can easily tell if you have theright key straight away, instead of relying on special colour coded doors andkeys. Everything about this game seems to have been designed so that you getthe most time puzzling and wandering around, and not wondering what key goeswhere or what the hell the object actually is that you just picked up. Thishas to be in my top three most playable adventure games on the Beeb, a classic,right behind Castle Quest and Citadel.The graphics on this game are very nice, extremely finely detailed and verywell drawn, they really do push the Beeb to the limits of it's sprite-handlingtechnology I feel. The graphics colours are well chosen, and they never clash,even with the frequent palette changes which take place throughout the screens.The sounds of the game are nice enough, if very bland, in fact this wholecompilation seems to be one of the most devoid of sound out of the whole 18PAS's! Sound is limited to beeps and bleeps, not too interesting really. Something which is good about the game is the fact that there is a nice littlemessage scrolling by on the title screen, it is quite funny, and you can readit for ages, it never seems to end!!!The Last Ninja 2----------------The Last Ninja was one of the few games that managed to keep my interest rightuntil the very end of the game, and it never felt like a hard slog through thelater levels, so I was pleased to get hold of this game, as I expected more ofthe same. The game is written by Peter Scott, a very accomplished author, andit pleased me that this game was a change from his usual style, and even morethat it was nicely done. Basically, you are a Ninja in New York, and you haveto fight through the six levels of the game, killing everyone, and also findingtime for a small bit (and very easy at that) of puzzling. The game is played in a pseudo 3D sort of style, from a fixed viewpoint, but ismore detailed and has chunkier sprites than some of the Isometric 3D games,prime examples of these come from Ultimate Play the Game. Anyway, it isbasically easy to move through the game, the puzzles are easy enough, but thefighting at times seems impossibly hard. Until you get one of the variousweapons in the game (there are some nice Ninja weapons available, the Sword,Numchukas, Stick, and my favourite, the Shuriken Star!) it is very hard to killthe people who chase you, and many of your six starting lives can be lost atonly the start of the game. Once you do get a weapon though, the game becomes alot more fun, and although the baddies are not exactly very artificiallyintelligent, they are quite hard. There is a good range of baddies to conquer,from Policemen to other Ninjas, and some pack a pretty hard punch with theirweapons! Aside from the fighting, there are also other parts of the game whichare more puzzle-orientated, for example, in the first level (Central Park)there is a stream of lava (!?) and you have to step on the stepping stones toget across the level, this is hard, especially as you have to pick the rightjump key (there are three, small, medium and large) this adds some variation tothe game, so you don't feel like it is punching all the way. The graphics on this game are extremely impressive, the 3D (even though it isnot exactly true 3D) is good and works well, and the colours are nice. Thereare a lot of different objects in the game, and the screens are always packedfull of details. One minor gripe about the graphics engine is that sometimesit goes a bit wrong and you end up actually walking through solid objects! This is quiet annoying and looks a bit stupid at times. The rest of thegraphics are excellent though, and very well put together. The main characteris very well animated, with kicks, punches and jumps. The sound (as I've said before about this whole compilation) is very minimal,and again is limited to small beeps and buzzes. A bit more imagination for themusic would make this game into a classic, but as it is it is a very good game,it seems to me that Peter Scott was a bit of an all-round great programmer.Overall-------A nice blend of games make this one of my favourites PAS's, it has some greatgames, and they will all last you for a long time, two are huge graphicsadventures, there is a nice beat-em-up to play which has some nice puzzleyelements, and a good old fashioned shoot-em-up to relax with. If you only buythis for Ricochet (definitely the best of the bunch) then you may be pleasantlysurprised by your other three acquisitions.Score: 89% - Recommended