Play It Again Sam 16 ReviewBy Crispin Boylan (E4W)Available From: Superior SoftwarePrice: `14.95 (`6 to 8BS Members)Type Of Games:Hostages: Action Platform/First Person Perspective Shoot-em-upVertigo: Isometric 3D PuzzlePerplexity: Repton/Pacman clonePipemania: PuzzleHostages--------This is really the biggest game in the package, when it was released as asingle game it caused a bit of a stir, particularly because of theimpressive conversion of the game from the more powerful 16-bit formats.It is not surprising then, to learn that the programmer who converted thiswas the multi-talented Peter Scott, a man with, to say the least, a fewgood games under his belt. In this game you play the part of the commandoswho have to rescue the prisoners from the violent terrorists. You reallyplay the part of the team co-ordinator, as you are in control of variousdifferent men throughout the levels, the ultimate aim being to kill allthe terrorists and rescue the hostages. The game is played over threebasic levels, outside the Embassy, scaling the walls to get inside, andfinally inside the Embassy looking for the prisoners. Although the levels described above do not sound as if they would take toolong to complete, they are in fact very difficult to play, and multiplegaming skills are needed if you are to complete the game. On the firstlevel, you just have to dodge the searchlight of the terrorists in orderto position at least one of your three men, the more men you get intoposition, the easier the next level is. The second level sees threedifferent men scaling the walls of the Embassy in order to break throughthe glass windows and get inside. To have a good chance at this, the threemen you positioned in level one can help by shooting out the glass of thewindows, or covering you from the terrorists.  If you are to succeed onthe third level, which is inside the Embassy in a first person perspectivesearch/shoot-em-up, then you really need to get all three men inside. Thegood thing about this game though is that you can get past each level withjust one of your men completing the task, although this makes the gameharder, it also allows you some freedom, and you never really feelcompletely stuck or frustrated. In fact, it is one of the leastfrustrating games I have ever played, and it is actually not the easiest,although not exactly completely impossible - at least on the defaultsetting!The graphics in this game are pretty good throughout, particularly thefinal 3d level, which impressed me greatly with its fluid movement andimpressive programming. Although in low-resolution mode, the programmerreally gets the best from them, and there is no annoying flickering of thesprites which can happen when using larger sprites on the Beeb. The othertwo levels are fairly standard, the graphics are perhaps a bit dull, butthen again the game is supposed to be set at night-time! The sound on thewhole is good, not much during the actual game, as it is pretty demandingon the processor, but the overall multimedia aspect contains a high degreeof quality. This isn't quite good enough to be called a classic, but nonetheless it isvery impressive and will last for ages.Vertigo-------There seem to be quite a few of these little isometric 3D puzzlers on theBeeb, but this one however is an excellent game, with all the makings ofa classic puzzle game. The actual game itself is quite simple, you have toguide the perfectly octahedron-shaped ball around the level, which isnormally made up of tricky surfaces and structures, to get the diamond atthe end of the level, or other object. To make this harder there are lotsof cunning 3D structures which can fool you into taking them the wrong wayand taking the ball off of the structure, which loses you a life. Thereare 50 of these levels, divided into 5 sections, which you can usepasswords for, but the ultimate aim is to do all 50 without using anypasswords, the instructions say that if you can actually complete all ofthem without using the passwords then you should write to Superior andtell them what happens at the end of the game, and they will send you acertificate. I do not know if they still do this though!The graphics in this game are very impressive, the 3D is excellent, and ithas loads of features to help you, such as the way that if you go behind a3D object, you can still see the ball, and therefore not make any mistakesby losing the ball on the screen. The graphics use a high-res dual colourmode, which looks lovely. Although each level is only a single screenlarge, it does make the game a lot more interesting and easy to get aroundthan some other games like this which require a lot of remembering whereeverything is in order to traverse the levels. Another impressive thingabout this game is the good music which constantly plays throughout thegame, even though it gets a bit annoying after a time! Luckily soundcontrols are included, but this is a very polished and playable game,especially if you like your puzzle games to be a bit more active!Perplexity----------Another big game from Superior, and one which I am told sold very well atthe time. It sort of brings together elements of Pac-Man and the ClassicRepton, and adds a nice little 3D element to the whole thing. The aim ofeach of the sixteen sprawling levels is to collect every diamond on thescreen, some of these are in view at the start, but a lot of them have tobe produced by pushing two of the rocks together, which turns both intodiamonds. To hinder your progress there are black boulders which donothing except get in the way, and monsters which must be avoided (theycannot be destroyed). There are also keys which must be used to open thesections blocked off by doors, and also some rocks conceal magical potionswhich when collected in fours give you an extra life. To make everythingeven harder, you have a time limit of 500 seconds to complete each level,and four lives at the start of the game. The game plays well, and does actually combine the two aforementionedclassics extremely well, in fact it does it so well that I feel the gameis almost as good as Repton itself. The game is really original, which issurprising as you would have thought that by the time this was released(1991) there would not have been many good game ideas left to choose, asis unfortunately even more evident now than ever before. The graphics on this game are brilliant, a real credit to the programmer(Ian Collinson), they move with excellent pace, they look great, they'revaried, and probably some of the best low-res graphics I've seen on theold Beeb. Sound is also quite good, some nice tunes and some good effects,this makes a change to most of the games which ignore sound for the bestpart of the game. A nice feature is a volume control, which will let youset different volumes, so you can turn the sound down if you still want tohear it, but not quite so loud as the Beeb thinks it should play it toyou!This game is indicative of the whole of this compilation, a very highlypolished and perfected game, and well worth the money for the compilationalone. If you like Repton and Pacman, then you'll love this, and even ifyou don't then it is still a worthy play, if only to see the 3D graphicsmoving so well.Pipemania---------I have to say that this is one of my all time favourite puzzle games,probably a close second behind the classic Tetris. I've never come acrossit on the Beeb before, except in an old Micro User type-in listing (whichwas far too long for my humble fingers to type in) called Plumb Lunacy. Ithas been released on just about every format ever, and I don't feel it hasever gotten the credit it deserves. Basically the plot is superfluous tothe game, but it is worth knowing that you are a plumber and have to builda network of piping to take the fluid which is about to be pumped out ofthe system. You have to build the piping up to a suitable length so thatthe fluid won't leak out.  Each level you are told how many squares thefluid must travel through, and if it travels through any more after thatthen you earn bonus points. It is not as easy as it sounds though becauseyou cannot choose which type of pipe you put down, it is in a randomorder, so the key is to think ahead and plan a route for the fluid, thenwhen you get down blocks you need, put them in the relevant places. Attimes this can get quite hard, particularly if you get a bad run of pipepieces. There are also special pieces which you can use to get even morepoints, but which are already placed on the level, and you have to connectthem into the system in a suitable way, such as Reservoir pieces whichhold more ooze, one-way pieces which are pretty self-explanatory and, onsome levels, end pieces which must be connected last. One of the things I liked best about this game was the fact that there isa two-player mode in which each player has a pipe dispenser, and you bothhave to help to build a pipeline, this can be especially competitive ifthe other player has different plans on what he wants to do with the pipenetwork!The graphics on this game are hardly inspiring, but they do the job, onceyou get into this type of game the graphics are the last thing on yourmind anyway. The game is played in a high-resolution mode, which makeseverything a lot clearer. Sound is also good with the usual puzzle typemusic droning on in the background, it certainly tenses things up in thetwo-player mode!Overall, considering this game is the only non-Superior game (it wasprogrammed by Empire Software) it is pretty impressive, and easy to seewhy it is included, it completes a great compilation.Overall-------This is my favourite Play It Again Sam by far, all the games are great funto play, and if you only have one PAS disk in your games collection, thenthis should be it. I can't recommend it highly enough.Score: 92%